Puzzle Partner, an innovative consultancy firm, today announced the success of their recent initiatives focused on developing dramatic growth and marketing strategies for hospitality and travel technology start-ups.
"We are very pleased by the interest in Puzzle Partner and the services that we offer," says Alan E. Young, CEO of Puzzle Partner. "The travel and hospitality technology start-up domain is full of great ideas and innovations. Navigating through the world of hotel and travel companies for an emerging business can be extremely complex. They need to build awareness and start creating revenues immediately. Every step in these early stages can mean the difference between success and failure. Puzzle Partner has the expertise to pinpoint the most capital-efficient priorities in order to quickly reach their business objectives."
The firm is comprised of experienced marketing, sales and product executives with deep industry knowledge to deliver the best possible outcome for clients.
"Puzzle Partner has been a great thought partner at building CheckMate's awareness and relationships," states Drew Patterson, CEO and co-founder of CheckMate. "Alan and his team know the industry cold!"
Puzzle Partner is extremely proud to be assisting the following companies:
"Puzzle Partner provided an extensive understanding of our aggressive business goals and the expert resources combined with industry connections to make them happen," explains Charles de Gaspien, CEO and President of Groupize Solutions. "It's incredibly hard to find a single company who can provide that—especially with the right expertise, partnerships, and a can-do attitude."
To help their clients reach their full market potential, Puzzle Partner offers a wide range of services that reinforce their core consulting work, including industry networking, marketing visibility, and lead generation. They also offer venture capital and angel capital introductions.
"Puzzle Partner has guided our overall go-to-market strategy, setting specific marketing goals and laid out our road map to execute them," says Niraj Shah, Founder and CEO of Eventgrid. "We are excited about the results we are seeing already and look forward to the next steps."
"We empower organizations to be great," adds Alan. "By leveraging our combined force of skills and key industry relationships, our clients can decrease time to market or overall sales cycle time, which in return increases profits and credibility. Our hands-on approach combines strategy, disruptive ideas and flawless execution in a way that doesn't just maximize a company's potential; it redefines it. Whether it is additional funding, marketing or strategic partnerships, product strategy and sales training, we are here to help."
For more information, contact:
