Our twice-monthly Skift Trends Report series takes a deep dive into industry trends across various sectors of travel. 
The latest report in the series, The Big Business of LGBT Travel launches today. 
The lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender (LGBT) community has never been more visible or powerful than now. With the steady progress of LGBT rights coupled with global economic recovery, the LGBT consumer is highly desirable — a “dream market” as described by The Wall Street Journal — due to its high discretionary income, economic resilience, confidence, and brand loyalty. 
“Gay travel” has always existed, whether in the form of gay men partying the night away on Mykonos or lesbians making a pilgrimage to their namesake Lesbos. This travel market has grown visibly in the past 20 years, reflecting advancements in LGBT rights and social acceptance, resulting in a corresponding increase in corporate marketing, communications and responsibility aimed at the LGBT demographic. Today, most players in the travel and tourism industry agree that the LGBT market is lucrative and actively court it. 
LGBT travel might be booming, but marketing strategies and diversity awareness are still evolving at a business level. This report will discuss the events that helped create LGBT market awareness, the major trends in today’s market, and innovative approaches to campaigns and strategies that work. 
Preview the report below, including the Executive Summary, Introduction and Table of Contents: 
This is the twenty-second in a series of twice-monthly trends reports that brief readers on a specific trend, providing insight into the current state of the market, the context around the trend, and where the industry is heading in the near future. 
After you subscribe, you will receive two reports every month — 24 in a year — direct to your inbox. Reports are delivered as a downloadable PDF. 
Or you can also download each report a la carte, at a higher price. 
You can read more about the trend reports here. 
Any and all feedback is welcome. Contact me at ra AT skift.com.