Air Vistara, a Tata Sons-Singapore Airlines joint venture, has launched its brand on social media. 
The new parent company, Tata SIA Airlines Limited (TSAL), promises to “bring back the true joy of flying for leisure and business travellers alike,” as Mr. Phee Teik Yeoh, CEO, TSAL said in one of the company’s first Tweets. 
The airline took to Social Media for its debut, revealing details of its livery, logo and uniforms via Twitter @AirVistara and as AirVistara on Facebook. 
The airline’s first Tweet was: 
Air Vistara has continued to update its profiles on both Social Media outlets, including a look-back from Tata Airlines on Facebook: 
The name Vistara is “derived from the Sanskrit word ‘Vistaar,’ which means ‘limitless expanse,’ and draws its inspiration from the brand’s domain—the limitless sky,” according to the airline’s announcement. Its gold on burgundy eight-pointed star logo is “derived from a ‘yantra,’ a perfect mathematical form that reflects the unbounded universe.” 
The airline reflects is promise of a seamless travel experience in the “fluid interconnecting lines” of this simple yet elegant logo, which also graces the tail of an otherwise classic-white livery, with its signature rounded font displaying Vistara in burgundy, and touch of burgundy gracing its sharklets. The unique logo is the work product of India’s brand consulting and design company Ray+Keshavan | Brand Union. 
Sujata Keshavan, Chairperson, R+K | BU said of the Vistara project: “This was not just another branding project for us–we are all very emotionally vested in it.  We know that with Vistara, we are creating an Indian brand that will dominate global skies.” 
Simon Bolton, CEO of Brand Union worldwide added: “We are delighted that the Tata and SQ teams picked R+K | BU after considering bids from all the leading agencies in the world. It is a matter of great pride for us.” 
The agency stated that it focused on names which were Indian in origin, but “could easily be pronounced and remembered by a global audience. The name development involved culture and phonetic checks in over 20 countries.” 
The airline stated that it wants its brand personality to exude “an elegant and refined spiritedness reflective of a service experience that will be tech, savvy, meticulous, and authentic. Vistara aims to anticipate the needs and desires of its customers such that they are imbued with the experience of a welcome guest rather than a seat number.” 
Mr. Phee Teik Yeoh said during the airlines’ unveiling in New Delhi: 
“We aim to deliver a seamless experience via personalisation of services for guests who travel with us. Our core belief is that we will be intuitively thoughtful about our guests’ needs from the time they contact us to the time they leave the airport. Whether they are leisure or business travellers, we would like to make a significant difference at every stage of their air travel experience, and truly bring back the joy of flying.” 
The airline also debuted its new comfortable, contemporary, and yet informs designed by Abraham and Tharoke. 
Headquartered in Delhi, Vistara is expected to begin operations this October, flying Airbus A320-200 and A320neos, with a planed fleet of 20 aircraft; the first of which will be delivered this September. 
Speaking on the occasion of the airlines’ debut, Mr. Prasad Menon, Chairman, TSAL, said, “Today is a momentous day for the Tata group and Singapore Airlines. Vistara will redefine the way we travel in India. I can confidently say that Tata’s and SIA’s legendary hospitality standards and service excellence will make Vistara a natural choice for passengers.” 
Dr. Mukund Rajan, Member – Group Executive Council and Brand Custodian, Tata Sons, and Director, TSAL, said: “All of us at Tata are extremely pleased to have witnessed the coming together of all the elements that have led to the realisation of Vistara, a long cherished dream for the group that pioneered civil aviation in the country. The creation of a new full-service carrier is a matter of great pride for us.” 
Mr. Phee Teik Yeoh added: “We aim to build an emotional connect with our guests, through our service excellence delivered by the best people, supported by best in class technology and processes. Vistara will redefine industry standards and aim to be the finest full-service airline of choice.” 
Mr. Swee Wah Mak, Director, TSAL, and Executive Vice-President Commercial, SIA, further commented on the significance of SIA operating in India along with Tata by saying: 
“From a global investor’s perspective the Indian aviation sector has a lot of potential for growth and I am delighted that SIA now has a fruitful role to play here. SIA’s world renowned tradition of service excellence will contribute to the creation of the finest flying experience in the Indian skies through Vistara.” 
The airline received its final permit for operations from the Civil Aviation Ministry and its Air Operating Permit this July, but no routes have yet been announced, though The Times of India quotes sources saying the plan may be to begin services in five cities and launch with 87 weekly flights, linking Delhi with Mumbai, Bangalore, Goa, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Jammu, Srinagar, Patna and Chandigarh. The Times of India also references the joint venture as a 51:49 share between Tata Sons and SIA with Singapore airlines investing $49 million and Tata Sons “providing the rest of the total $100 million investment.”